docs: add mui tutorial and example (#1882)
pankod/refine: documentation/docs/ui-frameworks/mui/tutorial.md

                    );
                },
            },
        ],
        [],
    );

    const { dataGridProps } = useDataGrid<IPost>({
        columns,
    });

    return (
        <List>
            <DataGrid {...dataGridProps} autoHeight />
        </List>
    );
};
```

We access the row record with `valueGetter` and pass categoryId to the `useOne` hook. `useOne` hook returns a `data` object which contains the category title.

Try the result on your browser and you'll notice that the category column is filled correctly with the matching category titles for the each record's category id's. Even the loading state is managed by **refine**.

To get more detailed information about this hook, please refer the [useOne Documentation](/core/hooks/data/useOne.md).

## Adding search and filters

We're done with displaying `post` records on our `<DataGrid>`. Let's see search and filtering capabilities to the component, so that the user can have more control over the data.

`useDataGrid` hook provides a native `sorting` and `filters` props. Our way to handle these is to use the `useDataGrid` hook and pass the props to the `<DataGrid>` component.

:::tip

> To see how the filtering works and more detail, you can look at the [`useDataGrid`](/ui-frameworks/mui/hooks/useDataGrid.md) hook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see how the filtering works and more detail, you can look at the [`useDataGrid`](/ui-frameworks/mui/hooks/useDataGrid.md#sorting) hook.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this syntax but my goal is to post it in the sorting section

            minWidth: 350,
            valueGetter: (params) => {
                const { data } = useOne<ICategory>({
                    resource: "categories",
                    id: params.row.category.id,
                });
                return data?.data.title;
            },
        },
        {
            field: "status",
            headerName: "Status",
            minWidth: 150,
            renderCell: function render(params) {
                return <TagField value={params.row.status} />;
            },
        },
        {
            field: "createdAt",
            headerName: "CreatedAt",
            minWidth: 150,
            renderCell: function render(params) {
                return <DateField format="LLL" value={params.row.createdAt} />;
            },
        },
        // highlight-start
        {
            headerName: "Actions",
            field: "actions",
            minWidth: 250,
            renderCell: function render(params) {
                return <ShowButton hideText recordItemId={params.row.id} />;
            },
        },
        // highlight-end
    ];

    const { dataGridProps } = useDataGrid<IPost>({
        columns,
    });

>     const {
>         filterMode,
>         filterModel,
>         onFilterModelChange,
>         ...restDataGridProps
>     } = dataGridProps;
> 
>     return (
>         <List>
>             <DataGrid
>                 {...restDataGridProps}
>                 filterMode={filterMode}
>                 filterModel={filterModel}
>                 onFilterModelChange={onFilterModelChange}
>                 autoHeight
>             />
>         </List>
>     );

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
    return (
        <List>
            <DataGrid {...dataGridProps} autoHeight />
        </List>
    );
```

Let's start by creating a new `<PostEdit>` page responsible for `editing` a single record:

```tsx title="pages/posts/edit.tsx"
import { Controller, useForm } from "@pankod/refine-react-hook-form";
import {
    Edit,
    Box,
    TextField,
    Autocomplete,
    useAutocomplete,
} from "@pankod/refine-mui";

import { ICategory } from "interfaces";

export const PostEdit: React.FC = () => {
    const {
        refineCore: { onFinish, formLoading, queryResult },
        register,
        handleSubmit,
        control,
        formState: { errors },
    } = useForm();

    const { autocompleteProps } = useAutocomplete<ICategory>({
        resource: "categories",
        defaultValue: queryResult?.data?.data.category.id,
        queryOptions: { enabled: !!queryResult?.data?.data.category.id },
    });

    return (
        <Edit
            isLoading={formLoading}
            saveButtonProps={{ onClick: handleSubmit(onFinish) }}
        >
            <Box
                component="form"
                sx={{ display: "flex", flexDirection: "column" }}
                autoComplete="off"
            >
                <TextField

>                     {...register("title", { required: true })}
>                     error={!!errors?.title}
>                     helperText={errors?.title?.message}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    {...register("title", { required: "This field is required" })}
                    error={!!errors.title}
                    helperText={errors.title?.message}
```

                    margin="normal"
                    required
                    fullWidth
                    id="title"
                    label="Title"
                    name="title"

>                     defaultValue={" "}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                   
```

Is it necessary?

Author: Actually, It's required to get the default value

                />

>                 <Controller
>                     control={control}
>                     name="status"
>                     rules={{ required: true }}
>                     defaultValue=""
>                     render={({ field }) => (
>                         <Autocomplete
>                             {...field}
>                             options={["published", "draft", "rejected"]}
>                             onChange={(_, value) => {
>                                 field.onChange(value);
>                             }}
>                             renderInput={(params) => (
>                                 <TextField
>                                     {...params}
>                                     label="status"
>                                     margin="normal"
>                                     variant="outlined"
>                                     error={!!errors.status}
>                                     helperText={
>                                         errors.status && "status required"
>                                     }
>                                     required
>                                 />
>                             )}
>                         />
>                     )}
>                 />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                <Controller
                    control={control}
                    name="status"
                    rules={{ required: "This field is required" }}
                    render={({ field }) => (
                        <Autocomplete
                            {...field}
                            options={["published", "draft", "rejected"]}
                            onChange={(_, value) => {
                                field.onChange(value);
                            }}
                            renderInput={(params) => (
                                <TextField
                                    {...params}
                                    label="status"
                                    margin="normal"
                                    variant="outlined"
                                    error={!!errors.status}
                                    helperText={errors.status?.message}
                                    required
                                />
                            )}
                        />
                    )}
                />
```

                <Controller
                    control={control}
                    name="category"

>                     rules={{ required: true }}
>                     defaultValue=""

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    rules={{ required: "This field is required" }}
```

                                field.onChange(value);
                            }}
                            getOptionLabel={(item) => {
                                return item.title
                                    ? item.title
                                    : autocompleteProps?.options?.find(
                                          (p) =>
                                              p.id.toString() ===
                                              item.toString(),
                                      )?.title ?? "";
                            }}
                            isOptionEqualToValue={(option, value) =>
                                value === undefined ||
                                option.id.toString() === value.toString()
                            }
                            renderInput={(params) => (
                                <TextField
                                    {...params}
                                    label="Category"
                                    margin="normal"
                                    variant="outlined"
                                    error={!!errors.category}

>                                     helperText={
>                                         errors.category && "category required"
>                                     }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                                    helperText={errors.category?.message}
```

-   [Directus](https://github.com/tspvivek/refine-directus) by [tspvivek](https://github.com/tspvivek)

[Refer to the `dataProvider` documentation for detailed usage. &#8594](/core/providers/data-provider.md)
:::

## Bootstrapping the Application

Replace the contents of `App.tsx` with the following code:

```tsx title="src/App.tsx"
import { Refine } from "@pankod/refine-core";
import {
    Layout,
    ReadyPage,
    ErrorComponent,
    LightTheme,
    CssBaseline,
    GlobalStyles,
    ThemeProvider,
} from "@pankod/refine-mui";
import routerProvider from "@pankod/refine-react-router-v6";
import dataProvider from "@pankod/refine-simple-rest";

const App: React.FC = () => {
    return (
        <ThemeProvider theme={LightTheme}>
            <CssBaseline />
            <GlobalStyles styles={{ html: { WebkitFontSmoothing: "auto" } }} />
            <Refine
                routerProvider={routerProvider}
                dataProvider={dataProvider("https://api.fake-rest.refine.dev")}
                Layout={Layout}
                ReadyPage={ReadyPage}
                catchAll={<ErrorComponent />}

>             />

Reviewer 2: Should we add the `notificationProvider`?

                headerName: "Status",
                minWidth: 150,
                flex: 1,
                renderCell: function render(params) {
                    return <TagField value={params.row.status} />;
                },
            },
            {
                field: "createdAt",
                headerName: "CreatedAt",
                minWidth: 220,
                renderCell: function render(params) {
                    return (
                        <DateField format="LLL" value={params.row.createdAt} />
                    );
                },
            },
        ],
        [],
    );

    const { dataGridProps } = useDataGrid<IPost>({
        columns,
    });

    return (
        <List>
            <DataGrid {...dataGridProps} autoHeight />
        </List>
    );
};
```

We access the row record with `valueGetter` and pass categoryId to the `useOne` hook. `useOne` hook returns a `data` object which contains the category title.

Try the result on your browser and you'll notice that the category column is filled correctly with the matching category titles for the each record's category id's. Even the loading state is managed by **refine**.

> To get more detailed information about this hook, please refer the [useOne Documentation](#).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get more detailed information about this hook, please refer the [useOne Documentation](#).
```
Missing link

const API_URL = "https://api.fake-rest.refine.dev";
const App: React.FC = () => {
    return (
        <ThemeProvider theme={LightTheme}>
            <CssBaseline />
            <GlobalStyles styles={{ html: { WebkitFontSmoothing: "auto" } }} />
            <Refine
                authProvider={authProvider}
                routerProvider={routerProvider}
                dataProvider={dataProvider(API_URL)}
                ReadyPage={ReadyPage}
                Layout={Layout}
                catchAll={<ErrorComponent />}
                resources={[
                    {
                        name: "posts",
                        list: PostList,
                        create: PostCreate,
                        edit: PostEdit,
                        show: PostShow,
                        // highlight-next-line
                        canDelete: true,
                    },
                ]}
            />
        </ThemeProvider>
    );
};
```

After adding `canDelete` prop, `<DeleteButton>` will appear in edit form.

## Live Codesandbox Example

Our tutorial is complete. Below you'll find a live Codesandbox example displaying what we have done so far:

> <iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/github/pankod/refine/tree/next/examples/tutorial/mui?autoresize=1&fontsize=14&theme=dark&view=preview"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/github/pankod/refine/tree/master/examples/tutorial/mui?autoresize=1&fontsize=14&theme=dark&view=preview"
```

        renderCell: function render(params) {
            return <TagField value={params.row.status} />;
        },
    },
    {
        field: "createdAt",
        headerName: "CreatedAt",
        minWidth: 150,
        renderCell: function render(params) {
            return <DateField format="LLL" value={params.row.createdAt} />;
        },
    },
];

export const PostList: React.FC = () => {
    const { dataGridProps } = useDataGrid<IPost>({
        columns,
    });

    return (
        <List>
            <DataGrid {...dataGridProps} autoHeight />
        </List>
    );
};
```

:::note
We didn't use arrow functions for rendering cell because of the react/display-name is not compatible with arrow functions. If you want to use arrow functions, you can use like this:

```tsx title="pages/posts/list.tsx"
// eslint-disable-next-line react/display-name
renderCell: (params) => <TagField value={params.row.status} />;
```

:::

<br/>

Let's break down the `<PostList/>` component to understand what's going on here:

✳️ `<DataGrid/>` is a native **Material UI** component. It renders records row by row as a table.
`<DataGrid/>` expects a `columns` prop as a required.

:::note

> **refine** uses [Material UI](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/#mit-version) components to render data.

Reviewer: here we can specify that we also support the `<DataGridPro />` component

                return data?.data.title;
            },
        },
        // highlight-end
        {
            field: "status",
            headerName: "Status",
            minWidth: 150,
            renderCell: function render(params) {
                return <TagField value={params.row.status} />;
            },
        },
        {
            field: "createdAt",
            headerName: "CreatedAt",
            minWidth: 150,
            renderCell: function render(params) {
                return <DateField format="LLL" value={params.row.createdAt} />;
            },
        },
    ];

    const { dataGridProps } = useDataGrid<IPost>({
        columns,
    });

    return (
        <List>
            <DataGrid {...dataGridProps} autoHeight />
        </List>
    );
};
```

We construct an array of `categoryId`'s from `/posts` endpoint and pass it to the `useOne` hook. `categoriesData` will be filled with _id-title_ tuples to be used for rendering our component.

Try the result on your browser and you'll notice that the category column is filled correctly with the matching category titles for the each record's category id's. Even the loading state is managed by **refine**.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
